## Pandoc

- Talk title: Pandoc
- Presenter: Christian Krippes <christian.krippes@bibsys.uni-giessen.de>
- Date: 28. September 2022

### Download and install
- Pandoc is available for MacOs, Windows and Linux.
- Installation instructions and an installer can be found at <https://pandoc.org/installing.html>

### What is pandoc?

- Pandoc is free software and a universal document converter for the commandline
- Is was created 2006 by John MacFarlane
- It converts **a lot** of different markup formats between each other. E.g. `markdown` to `docx` or `html` to `odt`.
- It supports LaTeX.
- It has support for Figures, Tables, Synthax Highlighting, Cross References, Bibliography, Math (LaTeX)

### Use cases

- Lots of different markup formats (e.g from Students) can be combined into one PDF.
- Use one markup and create output for lots of different publication channels.
e.g. write in Markdown and create a PDF,HTML and Word-Document just by saving.
- Split bigger publications into one file per chapter and compile the full doucument out of many small ones.
- Its a command line tool, automation is possible.
- Write your own filter and templates to adapt pandoc to special use cases
- By empowering plain text it enables you to keep your documents in a version control system like [git]. Which makes it easier to track changes.
- Create slideshows that also make a great PDF-Handout.

[git]:https://git-scm.org

### Pros and Cons

### Pros

- Supports most common markup formats. Makes you more flexible.
- Plain text becomes powerful and enables version control
- Automation possible, makes repetitive tasks easier


#### Cons

- Details sometimes get complicated
- Learning curve, espacialy for those who not used to commandline tools
- No gui, which might be a hurdle for some people.
