# HackyHour No. 14

## Backup Strategy

- Presenter: Nils Seipel
- Disclaimer: He's not an expert and presents just his own 
considerations and results.
- Summary: Christian Krippes

Backup Rules:
1. The best backup is useless if you don't backup regularly
2. Every backup is better than no backup -> **Keep it simple and usable!**

While the following summary holds some points to consider in order to make
backups, you **should not wait** until you planed it perfect.  
**Instead, if you have no backups yet, start now and improve over time.**   
A start can be simple: by make copies of important data on an external hard drive.

### Data

- What data do we have?
- How important is the respective data to us?
- How long do we need or want to keep the data?
- How often does the data change?
- How bad would it be if we lost the data?
- Where do we store the data?


### Data analysis
You can write your results from above in tabular form to get an overview.

Here is a small example; you may have to adjust it to your needs.

| Data     | Location             | Retention Period | Value | Changes | Security  | Backup Medium                                 | Backup Interval |
|----------|----------------------|------------------|-------|---------|-----------|-----------------------------------------------|-----------------|
| Projects | Laptop               | forever          | high  | daily   | very high | external HDD 1, external HDD 2, Cloud Storage | daily           |
| eBooks   | Laptop, eBook-Reader | irrelevant       | low   | monthly | low       |                                               | monthly         |
|          |                      |                  |       |         |           |                                               

### Risk scenarios
- Fire in your apartment: External hard drive and analog picture are gone.
- Laptop theft: All your data is gone, except external and cold backups, e.g., in the cloud.
- Encryption trojan: Cloud and laptop data is gone.
- Your hard drive stops working: All data is gone? Recovery might be possible.

### Backup media selection and storage

Considerations:
- Retention period: 1 or 100 years
- Resistance against external impacts
  - Light
  - Shock
  - Air humidity

- Stock locations:
  - Bank safe deposit box
  - Friends

### Backup media

A general order of recommendations could be.

- A HDD is nearly always a good choice.
- Blu-ray with archive quality can be useful for long-term storage
- In a company environment, you should invest in and use tape storage
- If you want to use an SSD, do some research on your hardware and potential failures
especially if you want to store data for the long-term.
- Don't use USB sticks or SD cards. They do not last very long.

### Backup Strategies

- Popular strategy: 3-2-1
  - 3 copies on 2 different media, 1 offsite copy
  - general rule: make sure that not all backups are in the same place.
- Do it regularly
- One backup should be cold which means you keep it unplugged
most of the time. Obviously, not when you backup your data.
- Copies that could fall into the hands of others should be encrypted!
This is not exclusive for backups but also applies to USB sticks, data in the
cloud etc.

### Recovery Plan
- Check if you can recover from your backup; otherwise, it's useless
- In case you have to recover, check for
  - Do you have access to your passwords
  - Do you have all necessary tools
  - How long does it take to get you back to work?

### Data integrity

- While stored data can get corrupted, which can lead to total or partial
data loss.
- Make sure your backup tool checks for data integrity.


### Tools and further readings
- There is a huge selection of tools that help you to automate huge parts
of the backup process; see the link below. 
<https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/Synchronization_and_backup_programs>

If you work at JLU there are some tools and solutions already available to you
that may help you. You can find an overview of the available services
of the HRZ at the following link( german): https://www.uni-giessen.de/de/fbz/svc/hrz/svc/daten

The research data management website also has a FAQ on the topic, which you can find
here:
 <https://www.uni-giessen.de/ub/en/digitales-publizieren-en/researchdata/faq-en#anchor_where-do-I-store-my-data-during-my-work-process>

## Augmented reality in veterinary teaching

Anounced title: Horse skull model in augmented reality
Presenter: Daria Hennrichs and Viet Duc Vu
Summary: Christian Krippes

- Both work for NWTmed - "Science and technology in medicine"
- Interdisciplinary platform for "research-based learning"
- Provides VR course called "VRmed"
- Study projects with VR and AR glasses by students

### Reasons for Augmented Reality

Huge benefits in teaching,

- creative - can create content based on local requirements
- interactive - models can be changed, bones can be removed, etc.
- accessability of larger objects (e.g., horse skeleton), which otherwise couldn't
be made accessible to a broader audience due to size, fragility, or other
limitations.
- intuitive - zoom and rotate as like a picture

### Goal

Manipulation and observation of the individual bone structures in AR

- Interaction between user and model based on eye-tracking.
- Interactive skull 

### Techology

- A 3D-model of a horse skull by Prof.Dr.Staszyk.
- A Microsoft Hololens 2 to view the horse skull
- Unity Engine to prepare the model to work interactively
- Mixed Reality Toolkit 3, a toolkit for Unity to enable operation with
input from the Hololens.

### Eye tracking interaction

- In unity a so called "Object Manipulator" can follow your eye motion (gaze).
- A C# script processes this information and changes the color of a tooth
when you focus it. It also presents a panel with detailed information like name, location 
and material composition.

## Goals for the future 

- Extension of eye tracking
- Viewpoint display for simultaneous tracking on the computer
- Improve interaction
- Add more information to panels
- Add audio information
- Enable "sliceable" models